#summary Roadmap.

*Content*
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Current releases=

== v0.4.0 ==

Released March 16 2011. Main features:
 * First release with support for Mule 3, starting at v3.1.1.
 * Generated code based on the old service-concept.
 * Supports the new deployment model in Mule 3.
 * For details se [ReleaseNotes#soi-toolkit_v0.4.0 Release Notes].

=Planned releases=

== v0.4.1 ==

*Planned release date:* Late Q1 2011.

*Planned features:*
 * Add or improve support for some transports (FTP and POP3 for one-way services and REST and JDBC for request/response services)
 * Add suport for embedded ftp and sftp servers for integrations tests, removing need for external ftp and sftp servers for integration tests
 * Improve the documentation on the [http://code.google.com/p/soi-toolkit/ wiki].
 * Add other minor features left out from the 0.4.0 release due to time constraints, for details see [http://code.google.com/p/soi-toolkit/issues/list?can=1&q=milestone%3DRelease0.4.1 issues planned for v0.4.1]

== v0.5 ==

*Planned release date:* Mid Q2 2011.

 * Full support Mule flows instead of the old service-concept

== v1.0 ==

*Planned release date:* Unknown, depends on availability on unreleased 3'rd party products.

 * Support för !MuleSofts upcoming graphical development environment, [http://blogs.mulesoft.org/mule-studio-beta/ Mule Studio].
 
 Ensure that soi-toolkit can co-exist with Mule Studio and not interfering with it.

 Typically soi-toolkit can be used to generate good skeletons for pattern and test driven development of flow based services. Hopefully Mule Studio will be able to take on based on the generated code and allow the developer to enhance the code in a graphical environment.

Our progress depends on availability of the Mule Studio, hopefully we can get on the beta program...

= Not yet planned features =

 * Support for Pub/Sub patterns, BPM, BAM and CEP
 Based on a solid foundation for providing services, i.e. Mule ESB, we should be able to walk upwards the stack and add support for features like BPM, BAM and CEP based on proven open source products in each area such as [http://www.jboss.org/jbpm JBoss jBPM], [http://activiti.org/ Activiti] and [http://esper.codehaus.org/ Esper]...