#summary User Guidelines - Releasing An Integration Component.

= Releasing An Integration Component =

*Content*
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />


= Introduction =

When development and local testing is finished for a new version of an Integration Component its time to release it, i.e. tag the source code with a version-label, build the deployable artifacts an publish them for deployment in system test, qa test and finally production environments.

To ensure that the release process is performed in a consistent and repeatable way we use [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-release-plugin/ Mavens release plugin] to do the job for us. An integration components maven pom-files, created by soi-toolkit generators, have been carefully designed to work with the release plugin (there are many ways of setting up pom-files so that they don't work with the release plugin...)

The release is done in two steps:
 # First we ensure that the source code in trunk is ready to be deployed
 # Next we use the release plugin to perform the release

= Verify that the source code in trunk is ready to be released =

 * Go to the integration components trunk-folder
{{{
cd .../trunk
}}}

 * Verify that the maven pom.xml files contains an scm element like.
{{{
<scm>
  <connection>scm:svn://${svn-host}/${svn-path}/${artifactId}/trunk</connection>
  <developerConnection>scm:svn:svn://${svn-host}/${svn-path}/${artifactId}/trunk</developerConnection>
  <url>https://${svn-host}/${svn-path}/${artifactId}/trunk</url>
</scm>
}}}


 * Check that the code is in synch
 check for updates:
{{{
svn st -u
}}}
 and if required:
{{{
svn update
}}}

 * Verify that no SNAPSHOT-dependencies remains in the maven pom-files, replace with dependencies to stable versions if any.

 * Run tests
{{{
mvn clean test
}}}

 * Commit changes, if any
{{{
svn commit -m "Commit for releasing vn.n.n"
}}}

= Perform the release =

It is recommended to use the naming conventions defined below for version numbers specified during the release.

 * Perform a dryrun to verify that everything is ok, i.e. a release build will be successful and not fail in the middle leaving the release build in an inconsistent state. *Note:* Version numbers shall follow the format defined below.
{{{
mvn release:clean release:prepare -DdryRun=true
}}}

 * Fix any problems identified by the dryrun then perform a prepare-step to create the tag in svn
{{{
mvn release:clean release:prepare
}}}

 * Deploy to maven repository
{{{
mvn release:perform
}}}

= Naming Conventions =

The following naming conventions is recommended for version numbers:
 * {{{n.n.n}}} for releases
 * {{{${artifactId}-n.n.n}}} for svn tags of releases
 * {{{n.n.n-SNAPSHOT}}} for unreleased snapshots used during development